okay it's seven o'clock good evening
everyone on the welcome each one of
y'all here tonight to the November 8th
2022 Pennsylvania County School Board
meet
I need Miss Hancock to do a roll call
please Mr Burton
president Mr Henderson president Ms
Merricks president Mr Mills here Mr Moon
Mr Dallas here
okay I have a motion to reconvene from
clothes and certify related action items
so move
Pro call please
Mr Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr
Henderson
Miss Merricks Mr mayles aye Mr Moon Mr
Dallas hi
okay again I want to welcome each one of
you here tonight I know we got a special
night tonight I think the poll is
probably just closed I hope to have some
results
maybe before we get out tonight but
we're hoping for good things
at this time do we have any agenda items
to add Dr Jones
oh I'm sorry you're right
motions from closed we have a motion to
approve the request for release from
compulsory attendance for three students
based on religious exemption
discussion
roll call please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr
heads aye
we have a motion to waive School Board
policy gbo Dash PC retirement for Medina
Miller to allow her to retire in the
early retirement incentive program
effective December 31 2022.
so move second any discussion
roll call please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks
aye Mr
Mr dolls aye we have a motion to approve
Personnel changes for November 8 2022 as
presented
second
any discussion on any of the Personnel
changes
roll call please Mr Burton
aye Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye
Ms Merricks aye Mr Mills aye Mr Moon Mr
dots aye
okay
now I need as any additions to the
agenda Dr Jones yes sir I can approve
agenda as he is so move
second
any discussion no call please Mr Burton
aye
aye Ms Gerald aye Mr
consent agenda I'm going to ask that you
go ahead and prove one through four as a
consent agenda and I'll hold five out
of a motion for the one through four on
the consent agenda I'll make a motion
second
any discussion all in favor say aye
welcome I need a roll call please I'm
sorry thank you Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks aye Mr Mills aye Mr Moon Mr
Dallas uh now a proclamation for
American Education week November the
14th through the 18th 2022. we have a
motion to approve that
second
any discussion
roll call please
Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson Henderson
aye Ms Merricks aye Mr Mills
aye Mr Moon and Mr Dallas
aye
public presentations first is the
character word of the month Mr Hearn
go out in the right
in the high school right
welcome
good evening school board members of the
audience and our listeners at home as
Lawrence Stern said respect for
ourselves guides our
morals respect for others guides our
manners I agree wholeheartedly with this
quote but I want to address a common
misconception about respect many people
say respect is not given it is earned I
say this is wrong I say respect should
be afforded to all members of society
until that person's actions have proven
otherwise
all too often we as a society give
respect based on Merit whereas in
reality regardless of title every person
deserves respect in their own sense so
keep in mind as election day comes to a
close that although we as Community who
let politics divide us we as humans
should let respect unite us thank you
and have a good afternoon very good
thank you
all right bsba School Board Academy
Awards Dr Jones
yes sir Mr Dawson School Board we have
three awards that I'd like to present uh
this evening to school board members uh
the first award
is the award of achievement uh this
award is presented to Mr George
Henderson for commitment to effective
School Board governance through your
participation in the vsba school board
Academy
2020 2021
and with it is a bronze pen sorry and
with
and with
it hey smile for the camera
[Applause]
the next is a war of achievement this
award is presented to Mr Calvin Doss for
his commitment to effective School Board
governance through his participation in
the vsba school board Academy 2020-2021.
[Applause]
foreign
and the final award is the award of
recognition this award is presented to
Mr J Samuel Burton for his commitment to
effective School Board governance
through his participation in the vsba
school board Academy 2020-2021.
[Applause]
yes sir
um a request to address a school board
Miss Kim Fitzgerald are you here
Mr Fitzgerald
Dr Mark Jones
school board members
those in the audience and those that may
be streaming if you are streaming live
my name is Kimberly Fitzgerald I am the
chairperson of the NAACP axo program
what they have passed around now is a
little bit of a overview of the axo
program I wanted to give you something
tangible as well as I'm going to give a
brief synopsis of what the program is
about
what is axo
the naacp's afro-academic cultural
technological and scientific Olympics is
a year-long achievement program designed
to recruit stimulate and encourage High
academic and cultural achievement among
African-American high school students
axo includes 33 competitions in stem
Humanities business and Performing Arts
Visual and culinary arts almost 300 000
young people have participated from the
program since its Inception
who is eligible to participate
students of African descent however I'm
going to make a correction to that any
student that is in high school grades 9
through 12 are eligible to participate
this is an African-American cultural
program however all persons because I'm
the chairperson I'm warning all young
people ages ninth I mean grades ninth
through 12 to be able to participate and
be able to move forward to the state
competition as well as the national
competition
U.S citizens you have to be as well as
you have to be enrolled in grades 9
through 12. and our amateurs and
categories that were stated above within
those six categories that I listed they
are broken down into 33 individual
subcategories which you can see on page
two the different categories for each of
the stem Humanities business performing
Visual and culinary arts the Excel
program is an achievement program over
the course of each year students work
with local volunteer instructors and
mentors to develop projects and
participate in enrichment opportunities
including workshops tutorials and field
trips specified to their competitions
throughout
um
the year it actually starts in August
the kickoff is in August of every year
and the competitions are held in April
of every year so from August to April
each of the students that are signed up
which they can participate in three
different competitions out of the six
categories of the 33 subcategories they
can choose three participate in those
they will have monthly meetings we will
meet either virtually or in person and
that will be done between August and
April of every school calendar year in
April our local competitions will be
held those who receive gold medals
within the local competition are then
Advanced to the national competition
on the national competition level
students are able to receive Awards in
each of the three individual
subcategories where they can receive
gold silver or bronze Awards gold
award-winning is two thousand dollars
bronze excuse me Silver is 1500 and
bronze is a thousand among those three
top Awards find uh monetary Awards there
are also other outside scholarships that
can be awarded to competition
participants as well as sponsorships
that can be awarded as well
since exos program Inception more than
000 students have benefited from this
program some of those which are actual
alumni celebrities such as actor and
comedian Anthony Anderson which was a
gold medalist filmmaker John Singleton
actor Michael Beach which also was a
gold medalist rapper Kanye West actress
Jada Pinkett Smith and jazz musician Roy
Hargrove was also a gold medalist so I
am petitioning to the school board your
full support in 2023 2024 for the rest
of this school year up until next year
August we will be doing a recruitment
process with being able to access the
schools and get able to be able to sign
up any of these young people that will
be interested in participating in the
Axel program in any of these categories
we're asking for the full support of the
school board we're asking for the full
support of each of the high schools and
we're asking for the full support of the
community as we will be looking to the
community for volunteers mentors
business owners and people to help with
the different 33 subcategories that is
my presentation and do anyone have any
questions at this time
thank you thank you Miss Fitzgerald
Pennsylvania's for a brighter future
hello Dr Walker I'm sure you are tired
tonight
I don't know you got a pretty good
spring in your step
sometimes Luke's looks are deceiving I
want to thank you all for a pleasure it
has been to work with you each one of
you all are just amazing
y'all have movement up front but I have
a few notes I wanted to
so this has been one fantastic day we
have had a full group contingent out and
about at every Precinct some of you have
been at every Precinct today and I want
to thank you all for what you did we had
over 70 some volunteers out there
but if it's okay can I take just a
moment because I want to do a summary
for those of you in the room and those
of you online we have a lot of
volunteers who are leaving precincts and
are coming this way to help monitor the
results for this evening but I wanted to
tell you just a little bit about what's
happened in the last 11 months 32
companies and 19 individuals donated
to the effort and raised over forty four
thousand dollars approximately forty
three thousand of that was expended for
a campaign and the remaining funds will
go to one of Pittsylvania counties
non-educational foundations hopefully
hopefully the Career and Technical
we have had letters to the editor that
was written over 20 people in
organizations forced their support
almost 500 campaign signs were
distributed throughout the county
27 000 homes received a vote Yes card on
two different occasions in September and
in October
154 Facebook followers joined us over 25
000 contacts were made through social
media
today 72 individuals plus joined us some
of those were students who stepped up
and made a difference most importantly
thousands of Voters have voted today the
campaign think team thinks each of you I
have a huge list that I will send out
electronically but I want to stop and
pause and think Willie Fitzgerald for
saying yes
to serving on this board to Stepping
forward he told me in January Martha
we're together we're going to make this
happen Sammy Burton I don't think you
missed any meeting that we went to any
presentation that was made you were
there and some you went by yourself all
the school board members have stepped up
and made a huge difference so I am very
grateful we have strategy team that's
been working on this that raised this
money what a difference they made we had
Staffing like Tracy Worley and Janet
Hancock who were with me a hundred
percent all the way we have cookie
Edmonds Felicia Edmonds and Farrell who
honestly kept saying Martha have you
filled out this form for the Department
of Education have you done this they are
awesome individuals and we have a slew
of people who have been core to making
things happen
the chamber the fire departments the
Pittsylvania County Farm Bureau the
NAACP and Pittsylvania County Education
Association
people volunteered to hand out flyers in
their time they made it the students
were there to support the principals and
the teachers and the PTO officers
listened and did what they needed to do
most of all we are grateful to the
superintendent I want to tell you that
this gentleman has made a huge
difference
he never said no he was constantly
thinking of new ways to make things
happen
he was with us on a hot Juneteenth
celebration in Gretna he knocked on
doors with me and hurt and there were
people were like is that superintendent
yes it is he was always there he was
always willing to go the extra mile I
don't know when you rested I tried to
keep up with you thank you for what you
did for the school system
[Applause]
any other
you don't mind
all right
look none of this would have happened
without your leadership and and on
behalf of Pittsylvania County schools
and the people who live here thank you
we thank you for your tremendous
contributions efforts and support of
Pennsylvania County Schools it's with
our greatest appreciation that we give
you these flowers oh how beautiful and
what's up thank you thank you
[Applause]
um
[Music]
[Applause]
Mr meals had he had to stick with me
this afternoon and Ryan Gammon came we
had a good time at our Precinct we
really did it was wonderful y'all are
awesome thank you Jana Hancock thank you
for everything all of y'all are
wonderful now we're gonna this I hope
you'll let us come back because we're
tracking numbers back here we're gonna
let you know thank you so much
thank you Dr Walker we do really
appreciate all you've done it's been a
tremendous effort by you and the team
next we have the Pennsylvania County
Education Association and I know there
you are Dr Jessica Jones
good evening
can we just give Dr Walker and her team
just another round of applause
absolutely
[Applause]
[Music]
outstanding work it's been a privilege
and honor just to see her motivate and
continue to do so many great things in
the community and be the tie that binds
continue blessings to you Dr Walker and
good evening to you sir Dr Jones our
school board members central office
staff and all those in attendance
virtually as well as in person tonight
is particularly special and we know that
several minutes ago the polls did close
right
and the polls across our country close
as the start and in some states the
continue counting of ballots that held a
variety of offices bills and potential
referendums that have been chosen to
either move forward
or not
so why I couch tonight is voting
important
and some would say
voting is your
civic duty
in July of this year the National
Geographic published a well-articulated
article which can be used for civic
instruction in grades 5 through 12 and
it was entitled why voting is important
the article highlighted how today most
American citizens over the age of 18 are
entitled
to vote in federal and state elections
but voting was not always a default
right for all Americans
the United States Constitution as
originally written did not Divine
specifically who could or could not vote
but it did establish how
the new country could and would vote
now because the Constitution did not
specifically say who could vote the
question was largely left to the states
until about the 1800s
now following a series of amendments to
assure a fair
and Equitable process for all
changes were made in 1869
1965 and in 1971
when the American voting age was lowered
to 18. see who I'm looking at
okay
it was building on the idea of if a
person could in fact serve their country
in the military
then they should be allowed to vote
and yes it's the piers form
of our public key word here obligation
now unfortunately over time some
citizens have become disenfranchised
with the notion that their one vote does
not matter
now if you ever think that just one vote
in a sea of millions or even thousands
could not make much of a difference
let's harken back to just a year ago
to our PCS sales tax for the school
capital projects
now think about that how close we were
to success
and all it took was just a few votes to
come short
so I Echo
yes every vote does matter
so as the sun has set and the counting
of ballots continue let us take away
this notion and again see who I'm
looking at
okay if your vote joins enough of the
other votes in your District or your
county
your vote undoubtedly
matters when it comes to electoral
results
don't ever become disenfranchised and
understand the process
because your voice and your vote matters
which hopefully we will see in the
future some positive results
from Dr Walker and her efforts and all
those individuals in this room who
believe in making schools a better place
to learn and work for everyone
so to attune into that I want to thank
you for affirming the proclamation for
American Education week
which I think is prominently placed
right here within seven days of election
day
it's a time where we can come together
and publicly recognize and acknowledge
the work that is done
for every student to receive a high
quality education
from the books that you get to the place
that you learn
because it impacts and shapes your
future and those after you
so daily I ask that each one of you
find a way to support education
specifically next week it's set aside
nationally for us to do that and it
kicks off on Monday
where you could do something like write
a letter to the editor
some of us are very familiar with that
but in that letter show your public
appreciation
for the things that are being done to
shape your today as well as your
tomorrow and that of others on Tuesday
it's family day
where all parents are invited to come in
and learn with their child in their
child's environment and I encourage that
because it does take a village
now Wednesday is education support
Professional Day our esps those who are
our bus drivers our cafeteria workers
our aides
those individuals that continue to give
above and beyond to impact our children
from the time they are greeted in the
morning to the time they go home in the
afternoon
and of course Thursday as educator for a
day
it's time to be us for even a period
half a day full-time day
but come in and see what's going on with
the Educators we can talk about the
onslaughts of what goes on in society
but the rubber meets the road in that
room
and this is an annual ask for all of our
school board members to come in now we
will give you support aka the lesson
plans
we will walk you through it we won't
leave you to the wind and some of us
have been there before
but we want you to come in and enjoy the
joys and discomforts of meeting the
needs of our students directly where
they're at
and then on Friday as we sum up the week
it's substitute Educators day
substitutes are Paramount to what we do
in education when the full-time teacher
is not there instruction must continue
so maybe even after Thursday you might
come back in on Friday and say let me be
a substitute full-time to have that full
experience and then at the December
meeting tell us what it was like
because again we're all in this together
and we must realize the process and
where we stand in it and realize our
voice and our vote does matter thank you
thank you Dr Jones
you don't want me to come and help you
educate because I would undo everything
you've done in a few weeks in just a few
minutes
okay thank you
Miss Betty can you check the sign up
sheet right there for us please no one
no one's on it okay thank you
all right so there's no no one signed up
to speak to the budget so we'll move on
to a presentation from Reading
coordinators Ms Gibson he was going
good evening
we are the reading coordinators for the
district
and we're here to tell you about
a law that has been passed
it's called the Virginia literacy Act of
2022 and it was passed in March
and it will go into full implementation
the school year of 2024-25
the Virginia literacy act 2022 like
children Across the Nation Virginia's
children are in the midst of a literacy
crisis across the Commonwealth one in
three kindergarten to second grade
students are reading below Benchmark and
far too many third graders are not
passing their reading Sol
this impacts students for years to come
students who are not proficient in
reading by the end of third grade are
four times more likely to drop out of
high school than proficient readers
so when the vla goes into effect in 24
it will ensure that every student in
kindergarten to grade three
will receive core literacy instruction
from an evidence-based literacy
curriculum for the entire literacy block
They will receive additional
evidence-based instruction and
intervention as outlined in a student
reading plan if they do not meet
literacy benchmarks
and at the bottom you'll see the vla
requires school divisions to use
evidence-based literacy curriculum
approved by the board
when the vla goes into effect it also
will ensure every family of a student in
kindergarten to grade three has access
to free online evidence-based literacy
instruction resources to support their
child's literacy development at home and
can participate in the development of
their child's student reading plan if
they do not meet the literacy benchmarks
it's going to ensure that every teacher
of students in kindergarten to grade
three
uses evidence-based literacy curriculum
for the entire literacy block
assesses student learning use an
approved literacy screeners routinely
throughout the year
use a student level data to inform both
whole group instruction and intervalage
instruction and intervention
and provided with pre-service
preparation and or in-service training
in evidence-based literacy instruction
every reading specialist working with
students kindergarten to grade three
coordinates and implements intervention
services for students not meeting
literacy benchmarks develops overseas
implementation of and monitors student
progress on student reading plans in
collaboration with teachers and Families
and every division
will develop develop a division wide
literacy plan
they will ensure all kindergarten
through grade 3 teachers have you have
and use evidence-based literacy
curriculum
staffs at least one reading specialist
for every 550 students in kindergarten
through grade three
provide professional development in
evidence-based literacy instruction to
teachers reading Specialists and
principals
and receives coaching and support from
Regional literacy coaches
vla requires school divisions to provide
evidence-based literacy instruction
professional development approved by the
board at no cost to the teachers and
reading Specialists the way we have
informed stakeholders so far is we have
met with k-3 teachers during their
planning this year and reviewed this
information we have informed Elementary
principles during monthly meetings we
are currently of course informing the
school board and we are providing
professional development through the
vdoe which they are paying for currently
and we're providing professional
development for teachers during PD days
thank you so much are there any
questions
sounds like you got your hanging spool
for the next two years yes
yes thank you I appreciate the update on
that
thank you very much
next we have our operations Department
update Mr Scott you going to get us up
to speed here yes
the following information is provided to
inform the board of current matters
relative to division operations earlier
this semester the operations Department
provided an overview of the school
systems regularly scheduled emergency
preparedness drills
schools annual school safety surveys and
school safety audits the division's
crisis management plan review and
revision process and the various Grant
related initiatives in which the School
Division and its Community Partners are
currently participating or in which they
plan to participate principles at each
of our schools completed their school
safety surveys at the beginning of the
school year and the division has
conducted its annual school safety
audits upon the completion of reports
detailing the findings of these audits
the operations department will share
these documents with our School's
principals so that they and their
faculties and staffs May collaborate
with division level Personnel to address
any safety related issues the
information contained in these reports
will also guide the division in the
annual review and revision of its crisis
management plan
as noted earlier school safety audit
reports and the inspection checklist for
Virginia Public Schools serve as
guidance documents and applying for
State security equipment grants and in
planning for related Capital
Improvements as a result of school
security equipment grant funding awarded
in recent years our division has been
able to update video surveillance and
audio communication systems in many of
its schools our School Division along
with others throughout the Commonwealth
is awaiting notification regarding Grant
awards for the most recent application
cycle if Pennsylvania County Schools
receives school security equipment Grant
funds this year they will assist in
securing additional security cameras
card reader-equipped entrances and other
equipment including vaping detectives to
enhance the security of our buildings
installation of the ladder using
previously awarded funds has already
been completed in conjunction with the
pilot project at two of our divisions
schools and we anticipate expanding
their utilization to Encompass all
middle and high schools also pending is
notification of the status of
Pennsylvania County Sheriff's
Department's applications for grant
funding to secure additional school
resource offices and to place gunshot
detection units in all County Schools as
noted earlier our division has recently
applied for and received funding from
the Virginia Department of Criminal
Justice Services that will pay up to 73
500 for the creation of collaborative
response graphics for the 21 schools in
our division
upon the completion upon their
completion these crgs will provide
access to detailed digital Maps be used
by First Responders that combine
accurate floor plans high resolution
imagery emergency response pre-planning
and gridded overlays into one map the
maintenance and information technology
departments are assisting in the
compilation of resources for this grant
funded project and walk through visits
by the contractor that is generating the
graphics will be conducted in the coming
weeks
additionally through the support of
sheriff Mike Taylor and our partners in
Pennsylvania county sheriff's department
our division will provide a
comprehensive two-day workshop and this
is scheduled for January the 5th and 6th
when we return from the Christmas break
focusing upon crisis response and
post-crisis reunification training for
all building level administrators level
directors assistant superintendents and
other select division level Personnel
through a combination of guided
instruction an applied tabletop
activities participants will examine and
plan for the implementation of best
practices as recommended in the standard
response protocol and this is a resource
that was compiled by the I love you guys
foundation and that is used by
government entities law enforcement
agencies and school divisions Nationwide
in addition to Preparing our employees
to respond appropriately in the event of
a crisis our school division works
diligently to properly maintain its
infrastructure which also plays a
critical role in protecting the safety
of all stakeholders in our buildings
recent ball field lighting fresh and
Wastewater management projects and HVAC
upgrades have affected needed
improvements in several of our
facilities although the larger HVAC
projects at kintuck elementary and the
Pennsylvania Career and Technical Center
are currently paused work will resume at
these sites during the course of the
summer of 2023 Roofing projects at
Braswell Elementary and the Pennsylvania
Career and Technical Center are still
underway with the former site nearing
completion work will continue on the
ladder throughout the coming months and
air quality reports from the pctc site
have confirmed the efficacy of abatement
measures in place to ensure that the
building remains safe for occupancy
while work is ongoing solar panel
installation has been completed at all
four high schools in Chatham Dan River
and Gretna are currently generating
power Tunstall will be connected to the
electrical grid as soon as an electrical
Transformer actually an electrical
breaker issue is resolved and engineers
and project coordinators are preparing
for the next phase of the project that
will play similar solar panel arrays on
our divisions for middle schools in
order to help ensure the physical and
cider safety throughout the fall our
information technology department has
guided schools in the implementation of
the school pass visitor screening system
and the goguardian content filter and
online student management software also
in conjunction with the divisions one to
one student to device initiative the
school system is issuing Chromebook
devices to all high school students this
fall to date approximately
1875 of the 200 2622 high school
students in our division have received
their devices and the rest will receive
theirs in the near future
the transportation department and its
drivers continue to demonstrate
outstanding dedication to ensuring that
our routes are covered and that our
students are transported safely and
efficiently contractors with Dominion
Energy are slated to arrive before the
Thanksgiving holiday to install two new
dispensing units to equip our existing
charges for the addition of two new two
new electric buses which will arrive
later this semester and these are those
buses whose purchase was made possible
by the Grant from the Virginia
Department of Environmental Quality also
five Training sessions that have been
held since the beginning of the current
fiscal year have resulted in the
addition of a number of new drivers to
our ranks daytime night and weekend
training options exist to accommodate
the schedules of all who may be
interested in becoming school bus
drivers and I think all the members of
the operations three departments for
their efforts in ensuring these and
other the success of these and other
projects throughout our division are
there any questions at this time
does anybody have any questions Mr Scott
it's very thorough thank you appreciate
it a lot going on isn't it
miss heymore you want to talk to us
about school-based mental health updates
I do I do thank you good evening all
actually I'm going to piggyback
there's God's conversation related to
school safety
so as we talk about school safety school
safety actually really begins with a
positive School climate healthy schools
provide connection and engagement
physical and emotional safety and
student access to important social
capital
in Pennsylvania county schools safe and
supportive environments are fostered
through activities and programs that
promote academic achievement
as well as the emotional well-being of
our students and our staff
this January Pittsylvania County school
middle and high school students will
have an opportunity to participate in
presentations from organizations that
Embrace this mission of healthy schools
middle schools will welcome Mr George
Bell a previous Harlem Globetrotter held
by the Guinness Book of World Records as
the tallest man in the United States Mr
Bell now tours schools and communities
across the Commonwealth carrying a
message of kindness and respect through
his Stand Tall against bullying campaign
later that month high schools will host
Rachel's Challenge a non-national
non-profit bullying and violence
abatement program based on the life and
writings of Rachel Scott the first
victim in the Columbine High School
shooting
Rachel's Challenge stimulates academic
and social emotional learning by
focusing on the connection between
students faculty and staff
since 2001 over 30 million people have
experienced this program eight school
shootings have been prevented and based
on voluntary reporting an average of 150
suicides are averted every year
these programs promote character
building resilience and respect for
others and align with this division's
initiatives a positive behavioral
interventions and supports our character
word of the month program and the
bullying prevention task force
both events are being coordinated
collaboratively between our division
superintendent instructional department
and myself and support services if there
are any additional questions or comments
please feel free to reach out to me
delighted to answer them on behalf of
that group thank you all so much have a
good evening thank you Miss Amor does
anybody have any anything for her
okay Miss Patty you got your next two
hardest things for us tonight
yes sir
committee request approval of the
calendar
so the first one is the grading and
Reporting committee do you want to give
us a quick update on that
and then we'll talk about the calendar
second
you just kind of give us a brief where
you're at with it right now you don't
have to go into much detail
the grading and Reporting committee is
working with strong and Associates
to help Pennsylvania County Schools
Implement a grading skill and reporting
system based on the most current
research that fits the needs of the
school division the project will consist
of a five phase project phase one will
be a research report on K-12 student
grading reporting phase two
recommendations report on grading and
Reporting changes phase three
strong and Associates will create a
presentation on the key findings in
phase four they will deliver key
findings to the grading and Reporting
committee and in Phase five they will
deliver key findings and recommended
changes to the school board okay
you hope to have that completed by
December correct yes sir and no later
than Jan
ET I think you're on that committee
correct yes okay and thank you for your
hard work I know it's been a little bit
of a challenge this time so
I do appreciate y'all at work and go
going back to the drawing boy
okay
now we want to talk about the calendar
I think and I wasn't here last month so
bear with me a little I believe you were
asked to go back and see if there were
any days they were willing to change for
the Juneteenth day is that correct yes
sir and I was
poll the members of the committee and
the comments varied on the majority
proposed the calendar as is with no
trade-off days they left into the
consideration of the board for any other
days days that were brought up for
consideration included the possibility
of a day in January but there was no
consensus on days to trade off
and bear with me again just a minute
because I wasn't here the original
proposed count ahead Juneteenth in it as
a 21st day an added day correct yes
correct yes I correct on that right
okay do we want to approve that tonight
when do we need a calendar approved
we asked tonight tonight okay we brought
it in October with the possibility I'm
good with that I'm good with that all
right so we I need a motion to approve
the calendar do we have any emotions
I'll make it motion
exactly
Mr Mills okay
any discussion
I I do have a question
there were 17 17 people on this
committee and I was all 17 I was had
different opinions so you can't satisfy
everybody right at this time I would
like to um
make a suggestion that we approve
Juneteenth for the 23-24 and 24 25
calendar at this time and then obviously
if we feel like we can come back at a
later time and look at another day
than so be it but
23 24 Juneteenth and 24 25 Juneteenth
let us go ahead and approve the first
motion that we have in front of us and
then you can add that as a motion
afterwards if you want okay
the motion right now is to prove the
23-24 calendar that was presented what's
the 20 days we've got a motion in a
second any other discussion
uh Road call please
Barton Mr Fitzgerald Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks aye Mr mayles aye Mr Moon Mr
dolls
now do you want to make that into a
motion you do I would like to make a
motion that we improve uh Juneteenth for
the 23-24 calendar and at the same time
24-25 if feasible if you just want to do
23 24 with us fine 22 20. I mean sorry
22 23 which is this year
23-24 for next year right I'm sorry all
right you have a motion any have a
second on that I like the second that
motion
any discussion
15th and
next that would alter this year's
current count you know last year we
talked about it in May I believe April
or May and remember summer school was
already set and it was it was too late
to and it's not too late right now right
if you wanted to to take that day you
can you can adjust summer school around
it or right
in the governor's school for the summer
right
so it wouldn't interfere right now it's
early enough to do it now to take it
playing around it where it wasn't last
year
okay any other any other questions a
couple comments yes sir
this type of thing came up within the
last three or four years
so this will be the second time
this this type of thing come up and I I
don't care what you call today but
another day other than in 20. and a
superintendent on both cases they
recommend not doing it
and laid out reasons for that
now if I understand this correctly and
if I am incorrect please stop
this affects about 200 employees
we got between 15 and 1600 employees
so right now those 200 employees have 20
days
and they can also accumulate annual
leave from 12 to 40 days
12 to 24 days they can accumulate
annually up to four up 240. this will
get they can get up to 40. days plus the
20.
so
all I'm going to ask you if you approve
this
and the other 1400 people want something
extra
don't go back and ask this man or these
people to find him
they've made that effort to switch off a
day and you can't get a consensus to do
that
so they talked to they did that even
during your calendar can we understand
they talked about switching today they
couldn't get us a consent
and I believe you presented last time
that they had come to an understanding
of what they could do the superintendent
advised again not to go to the extra day
it's in the hands of the board and the
superintendent will do what the board
directs it all I'm asking you if you're
going to change what he's recommending
you doing
and the other 1400 wants something you
folks find a way to do it don't put
these people through the torment of
trying to do something that we have done
I will not be in favor of just asking a
day and in a day to add a day if we can
find a way and next year's some way that
we swap days off
to help 200 people if they've got
20 40 days they want that day they ought
to find a way in that to do it this is
strictly
based on what you do with your personnel
and what you do as a business
has nothing to do which day it is but
you start doing that for one small group
a part of them you're going to be
expected to do something for the others
that's my comments okay
I'm going to give you a slightly
different reason that I have for it
about
six or seven years ago and y'all correct
me Dr Jones when we went to Breaking the
semester at Christmas that's why we
start early now
and I was at 10 maybe 10 years ago okay
we always have graduation now on
Memorial weekend I'm all Saturday always
that's a holiday that our folks and our
12th month folks used to get
for their families or whatever that they
could go and plan for a three-day
weekend and we have taken that away from
them by having graduation we chose to to
move our calendar
and chose to have graduation on a
holiday weekend so that we could break
at Christmas and do SOS Before Christmas
I think we've punished our 12-month
employees there's a tremendous amount of
Maintenance people that have to set up
for that graduation everybody in the
back room back here that's doing the I.T
for us here tonight has to be there to
do the sound system they have to take it
down they have to get all that stuff up
before the end of Saturday night they
can't they don't get to have that time
with their family we've taken it away so
you know this is just a little something
for me I think to give back those people
that we have taken a holiday away from
and that's my opinion on it now y'all
can have y'all's own opinion and Mr
Burton that's fine
but I think it's given those folks that
have sacrificed the 12-month folks
um a day back that we have actually
taken away from
that and that's the way I see it
okay any other comments or questions
all right roll call please
no Mr Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson yes
Miss Merricks yes
I'm sorry yes Mr mayles
aye Mr Moon
aye Mr Donald yes
okay
if you have your calendar this Patty
thank you thank you I I don't envy you
for doing it this is the first time I
voted on it in a long time you know I
never liked the candle I never have
okay anybody have any questions on the
other three desk reports
if not we'll move on to the
superintendent's report
yes sir I miss it all school board
members first item that I have this
evening is the
2024-2030 comprehensive plan School
Board policy regarding comprehensive
plan AF requires the school board to
adopt a division-wide comprehensive
unified long-range plan based on data
collection the analysis of data and how
the data is utilized to improve student
achievement
the plan is developed with staff and
Community involvement includes or is
consistent with all the division-wide
plans required by the state and federal
laws and regulations the school board's
current comprehensive plan is active
through 2024. by beginning the work
early in 2023 the Committees will have
an adequate time to develop a well
thought out plan
funding has been secured through the
devil Regional Foundation to provide
matching funds to cover the cost of
hiring a consultant to do this work
the last time that we hired a consultant
was in early 2000s late 1990s early
2000s I would
request the board to allow us to hire
consultant utilizing These funds to
allow us to have an extra set of eyes to
look at to bring different perspectives
as we plan for the next six years also
by beginning the the the
planning in 2023 with January February
it'll allow us a year to provide that to
you in December and in the springtime to
tweak it based upon your recommendations
so at this time I'd like to ask
for your approval to use utilize those
funds to hire a consultant to assist
with this do I have a motion
I'll second it okay any other discussion
roll call please Mr Burton
Cheryl aye Ms Henderson hi Ms
aye Mr Moon
aye
thank you okay uh next time I have and
and Dr Walker shared all this
information about the sales tax
referendum but I do have that on my
agenda so I'm going to be very brief but
I would like to thank her and committee
members and I think we have several
committee members that are here some
have just shown up thank you all for
your great work over the last year in
doing this I thank you all we began
planning this either early last spring
or early last or late last winter we
began planning for this year a lot of
hard work a lot of meetings a lot of
discussions a lot of planning
involving a lot of different groups and
great leadership so we thank you all for
that we thank you all for the the
positive
um support that we've had from the
community and and what you've engendered
uh from the community uh we saw today at
the polls when we're there
um and and we just feel like that that
things are looking up I think the
results are coming in so we greatly
appreciate that we greatly appreciate
you all being here this evening Dr Jones
I've got I'm just sitting here staring
at it if y'all Wonder at home what I'm
doing I'm watching my phone
10 precincts have reported out of 32
it's 4008 votes yes
3369 no so it's about 54 and a half to
about 45 and a half so yeah it looks
good so I don't know whether the big
precincts or little ones but it's about
about a third of them are in
and thank you all
last item I have uh for the student
Representatives that your places is an
itinerary for next week those who are
going to the vsba we'd like to leave
here uh Tuesday the 15th at 3 o'clock so
when you come be sure that you have your
permission form field trip permission
form be sure you have that with you have
everything you need we will be there uh
arrived there probably four hours later
so seven or eight o'clock that evening
the next day is a full day for you all
you all have a session that morning than
you have of the the
opening session at two o'clock that day
so and then we eat that night the next
day be pretty much free time that that
morning to do your homework to catch up
we'll have a luncheon with a group at
noon and then we'll head back that
evening Thursday evening please contact
Mrs Hancock if you have any questions
between now and then but number one be
sure they bring that permission slip
anything I'm forgetting Miss Hancock
that we need to remind them
of also board members at your places
isn't itinerary and I think also
information about the dinner that that
first night we were there
and I think that's all I have yep yes
sir thank you Dr Jones so I just want to
make sure we have a reservation on the
15th of 16.
you have resumes
okay
we're going to go up early
they're going home on Thursday yeah okay
instead we're going home on Friday okay
unfinished businesses next we have
Middle and High School dress code update
and I believe we need to approve that is
that right
yes sir anybody have any questions I
have a motion to approve it
so move
second now we can discuss it any
discussion
[Music]
um
every time I go out whether it's a
school event sporting event or I
frequent the schools picking my children
up I am always approached it's never one
time that I'm not approached about the
dress code and I would like to say that
modesty is necessary and I do believe a
dress code is necessary I am thankful
that we did get the lawyer to review the
dress code and modify some terminology
but I'm at a loss of words to When the
students and the parents when they ask
me
why is my student being sent to the
office specifically for shorts and or
leggings when we have yet to modify any
of that and I don't know what to tell
these parents I don't know what to tell
these students because they are fully
covered they are Tastefully covered
um
but yet they're not covered to the
degree that PCS requires for them to be
covered and we have professional attire
whether it's Educators whether it's
people higher up lawyers such that wear
leggings as professional with hire and
we do not allow our students to so I do
um
I would like the board to review it I
would like um the dress code committee
to review it again to see that what we
have put on paper is still not
acceptable for our young ladies
uh can I you know we're discussing it
right right
um
I I'm with Miss Merricks I think that we
need another committee to review it I
don't want to criticize anybody but some
new faces
some new uh some new folks maybe perhaps
to look at this to see if
how how the if anyone else is thinking
outside the box I guess uh so I'm I'm
with Miss Merricks I just I just don't
think I can approve the current dress
code as it as is written now
I'm kind of lost here miss Craig or Miss
Eden y'all chair that there's anything
you want to add or say or
I don't know
um
well piggybacking on the survey I had
numerous parents after this has came out
and after obviously it's been in the
Star Tribune as well state that they
knew nothing about a survey with the
internet connections that we have in
this County we can't expect a lot of
individuals to as well as I stated at
the last meeting if you have a male
student you don't have an issue with the
dress code but if you have a female
student you do
yeah I kind of don't know where to go
with this to be honest with you I mean
we've met and get surveys and you know
survey is only as good as the people
that answer them
you know I mean we've got a motion to
approve what's what's been presented
which is
basically what we have with the lawyer
changes right
I know it was one major change and that
was the compression pants yoga pants and
leggings
our old policy said that the top or the
clothing had to be
covering both in the front and back and
it had to be at a length that was four
inches above the knee
the committee changed that so now it's
fingertip length an opaque clothing that
covers the leggings both in the front
compression shorts yoga pants let me
make sure I include all three but it
covers both in the front and the back
and it's fingertip length and we said
the longest finger on the hand
and so that shortened it
so it would not
be what some of the people refer to as
long clothing
and and but it does cover both their
back and front
can I ask a question while you
um
I know that
Facebook is something that you
that most of us hold dear to our heart
when we shouldn't perhaps I'm looking at
some photographs that some moms are
sending me
of their children who have been sent
home
I can't believe that these children are
being sent home with what I'm looking at
now again am I looking at the facts I'm
looking at a picture or pictures that
moms not a mom but moms have sent me and
saying look at this does this does my
daughter really deserve to go home for
this and I look at it I say Jackie how
do you feel about it
Megan how do you feel about it and
they're all in agreement I didn't
I just don't see it I don't see where
we're the
children are exposing themselves to the
point that they need to be chastised and
sent home and then
I've also had a parent tell me that a
principal
took a tape measure in front of the
class
and went up and measured the girl's
clothing in front of everybody else and
embarrassed her I just don't know if we
have consistency here and I just I'm
sorry until till I feel comfortable
about it in Ms Merricks feel comfortable
about it and maybe some others I just
can't vote for the current policy I just
like to see some new faces on this thing
to to see see what they what they feel
like
and I'm not sure if everyone is aware
when our students participate in our
physical education classes the females
are required to either wear jogging
pants or jeans to work out why can't
they were the why can't they wear the
same shorts that the boys wear
why do they have to wear male shorts if
I walk in an Under Armor store and I go
to a female
it's still it would still match the
dress code I mean it's Jim it's forcing
my child to wear male clothing they
should be able to wear why are we
fussing about a four inch rule why what
are we so afraid of when we let females
wear female clothing what are we afraid
of
Mr
I thought the uniform as far as the Jim
would solve
at one of the middle schools that have
had shorts and tops
with their name on it and provide to
them that meet the code provide students
to make the code
and I thought that part of what we were
getting to with the drug with the
address code we're not supposed to
designate male or female it's supposed
to be Universal for everybody
and as far as new faces
then Mr Henderson maybe you need to pick
the ones because all you administrators
in these schools were there so if you're
going to need new faces you've got to
eliminate all the administrators in
these buildings
and I know the parents were picked from
random but I know some was picked there
because they were in opposition of the
current code
and I would hope if you see something on
Facebook that concerns you
you would turn that over to the
administration to get their side of it
before we start discussing it in public
because there's always two sides to any
of these issues
and most of the time I've been informed
on once that I have looked into
there are no people removed on first
offense
they're giving warnings if it continues
then it goes to another level
so I'm kind of a loss with the chairman
too
that we can keep discussing it but at
some point we're going to need to take a
vote
I think one of the students had right
members of the board
um what we're suggesting here and I
think what Miss Erickson Mr Henderson Mr
Henderson are suggesting I don't think
they're asking for a complete overhaul
of the draft that's been proposed but I
think that they're just asking for a
little bit more time to review what has
been discussed and what's been proposed
as the final draft as the student
Representatives I don't think that any
of us have been able to see a draft of
what is supposed to be voted on tonight
and I feel like that's just something
that's really important we were chosen
to effectively represent the students in
our school and I know that I've
attempted to get a draft and was unable
to this past week but I don't think Miss
Doss or Mr Hearn has been able to see a
draft of this proposed dress code so I
don't think we're asking for a complete
overhaul of what's been proposed but we
would just like for a little bit more
time to review I did have a mother
report to me
after our last meeting that she had a
child that was asked to get on her knees
in front of her classroom
and Report the length of her clothing
over her legs not saying that that is
something that happens commonplace
throughout the county but that is just
one of many issues that has you know
been brought to my attention as the
school of Representative and I'm not
asking for
things to you know like I said a
complete overhaul of what's been talked
about but I would just recommend that
you take at least our opinions into
consideration when we're discussing this
issue that we're having with the dress
code and the policy
I thank you for your common sense
approach on that your response thank you
may uh again respond to that too yes
service this has been going on since
last December
is when it first started
and some of the issues that I hear about
like what you're saying getting on the
knees that's enforcement
that's not part of the policy but that's
maybe a way it's been enforced if that
acts to happen
so that's not a change in policy and we
did have a policy presented
uh back several months ago since you
folks have been here that Miss Merricks
brought to
and I did a little personal survey with
60 some people
from 13 to 70. men and women that have
children involved are the children
herself
none of those folks wanted the whole
policy as Ms merchanted proposed she was
asked to bring back some changes she
wrote a new policy
of the sixth or some I did have two
people that wanted to make some changes
they were different
and I had several people want to make
changes they were more strict
so when you get into that it is but
there comes a time that we need to start
making decisions
and if you start to rehash and re-look
at the same thing we've looked at since
last December it does become to a point
that we are not only causing ourselves a
lot of times to look at it but we're
dragging our staff through redoing work
they've done three and four times
so like I said part of what you're
talking about is enforcement but not
part of the policy
just as a follow-up where previous
student Representatives presented with
the proposed draft of the school board
I don't think so because you just got it
back in August August maybe from the
lawyers
correct
so they would the answer to your
question would be no well at first off
they were they were
was look at it and the staff said staff
didn't want to make any changes they
were asked again so they looked at now
the student would have had available to
them their current policy
we didn't start doing any changes till
sometime in the summer when you folks
were here
when we started talking about it now
whether you're at the median or not I
can't remember
but that's when it started so they sent
it back to a they started a new
committee
sometime this summer late summer yes
right made of made up of Staff members
of the schools involved
parents some teachers and they went
through this and they made some changes
which you show folks would have had at
the last meeting when it came up
and the only changes made since then has
been some worrying that the attorney
says you need to change from this word
to this word they didn't change the
policy that changed some of the wording
is that correct
yes sir and all school board members
were invited to come to our committee
meeting so it was it was available to
you in your packets
so whether you actually looked at them
or not I can't tell you
but this process has been going on since
would you say September
September 8th was the first committee
meeting
so but we actually started working on it
in August
setting it was in September you would
have had it in your package
August of September September October
and then this month
the only changes that are there this
month was the language that the attorney
changed from last month
correct
um is this thing on okay
hi I'm Grace Doss
um but I am probably the only person in
this building that is actually affected
by the dress code I know there are two
other high school students but it really
doesn't affect boys how it does girls
and
I've just got to say something has to
change I dress very Tastefully as you
guys could tell by my wonderful outfits
that I wear here every month but
the dress code is really degrading and
embarrassing and I myself have cried in
my school building because of just being
embarrassed by a teacher because of
something that I was wearing and it like
I wasn't out of dress code I wasn't
dressed distastefully it was just a
little bit of my stomach was peeking out
for a second and
um
it's
it's just not fair how it girls are
affected and boys are not and yes the
rules are the same for everybody
but it is not enforced to guys the way
that it is for girls and I can say that
I have seen it with my own eyes and
anytime you guys think about this dress
code I want you to consult a teenage
girl about it and multiple teenage girls
because we all have something to say
about it and I don't know who you guys
are Consulting I don't know where this
survey was I don't know what packet
you're talking about but
um something really has to change and
I wish we had a pardon that because we
really are the only ones who see this
stuff
thanks
again they were they received the same
information we received correct the
I can't tell that would be Miss Hancock
that would have sent it to the
Liaisons the school board Liaisons
but um the survey went to parents I'm
asking when we first started and it came
to us in a packet about the survey but
would they receive that same information
I don't see even more dance
she doesn't seem more dogs they don't
see board dogs
they don't see the privates okay
but that was not in private yes it was
right but it wasn't in previous meetings
I'm sorry but when we when you put out
stuff for the survey it was on
everybody's it's available to right
as we had before is in is in our policy
the the current is posted on every
school website
the current is is the current dress code
for the public to reply back the um
parents to reply the question said do
you
have any concerns with the current dress
code for the middle and high school
and that went to all parents and an
alert went out to them by phone and then
a text went to them giving them the site
to go to and then we actually I believe
Ms Reynolds didn't we have that listed
on our PCS webpage
foreign
[Music]
most people I talked to were female
but what were you talking about that
being different it's enforcement
the code what we've tried to get to is a
policy that is gender neutral that's
what it's supposed to be that whether
it's enforced that way sometimes that
may be an issue but that's not of
changing you're not going to you can't
change a policy to make that work any
better or make it different if you're
not enforcing it like it's supposed to
like it's written to be
um can we clarify where we were supposed
to find the proposed draft for the dress
code
because I think that's what the question
was here because we have access to the
dress codes and our planners and on the
Pennsylvania County website and we were
well my mother wasn't
in the know about the survey and I don't
think Grace tosses was either but we
realized that the survey was sent out
and that they have access to current
dress code policies but I'm unsure where
we were supposed to review what was
being changed in the updated dress code
if that was put on own board docs that
we have to log into you would not have
received it
so what I'm trying to get at here is
that we're supposed to be effectively
representing our high schools but we're
unable to do that because we were unable
to review what was what is going to be
ultimately affecting us and the students
that we're supposed to represent as
school board Representatives all right
let me clarify according to miss Hancock
over here that that document was only
visible to the board members would not
have been visible to y'all
okay
going to her
um
anybody else
I'm going to say a couple of things I'm
kind of
kind of don't know where to go from here
to be honest but I'm going to say this
it is always bothered me when I go to a
sporting event
and I see our athletes dressed and
extremely tight shorts playing
volleyball or whatever they're playing
or I mean you can go you know football
players have tight clothes on I mean
it's all
all of that and then
but I've also been on the other side
when I've seen how much disruption and
Chaos it's called for us when we didn't
have a dress code
and there hasn't been too many years ago
that we had a mess without a dress code
right that's how this all got started
it got started so we could have a
uniform dress code across all middle and
high schools because it used to be up to
each school and and we always was
fighting that battle because every
school did something different and it
became a nightmare for us as a board
so I can see both sides and I don't know
where the happy medium is
um
the only thing I know is that you know
we have we have run this around and run
it around we've been working on this
since all y'all have since August
um we do have a motion and a second on
the floor so we do have to vote on
what's currently been presented
Mr Austin
Smith sure defense if you want to
continue no I've said all I want to say
I just I would like to say to the board
we've we've formed a committee and the
committee has reviewed it we surveyed
our staff we surveyed parents and
parents survey results 61 percent were
in favor of the current dress code 73
percent of our staff are in favor but of
the ones who were not in favor
that 27 most of those wanted from staff
want to be more strict
so I I would say to this we've made some
changes this year to the dress code the
dress code can be looked at every year
so I would say to the board we get it to
a committee we've taken it back to the
committee they've made a decision they
brought it back to you as a board we've
made some changes our attorney has
looked at it we've surveyed staff we've
surveyed our parents
survey results are positive
the old dress code is that correct the
old dress code but we've made some
changes there I would say as a board I
would recommend the board would approve
it you can always review it this spring
for the following year and just look at
it each year but we have exhausted a
committee it's going back to them and
they have provided input you know I go
to the parent who said who was asked
where do you I think she had children
who were four children I think the boys
were very tall the girls were very tall
she says I don't have any problem
finding the clothes for my children
so it's out there it can be done so that
would be my recommendation to the board
to approve this with sending you back to
us each year to look at each year maybe
make revisions year to year Dr Jones we
did have
I believe it was
1392 parents respond to the survey and
out of the 1392 61 percent was in favor
of the current policy that we have which
we amended
and then
um out of the it was over 225 teachers
that responded
so the
happy with the number of responses that
we receive because
and we made the assumption
that a lot of people may be who didn't
have a problem with it didn't even fill
out the survey but I can't say that
maybe some just didn't do it
but we gave a I believe a week
before we cut the survey off well
honestly 1300 is a pretty big number for
a survey that's usually better than we
get it was almost 1400 yeah but that's
not a bad number Mr Doss there was also
no regulation of who could take the
survey so it could be completed by the
same person multiple times oh yeah now I
don't know about that so I mean surveys
can be skewed
any other comments we have a motion on
the floor in a second so
any other comments
I will have to take a vote on this one
Mr Burton
aye and we voting to accept to approve
the one we what we have of course right
I'm getting confused now all right the
one that's the one that the committee
brought to us
Mr Fitzgerald
aye Mr Henderson abstain
Ms Merrick no
Mr Mills aye Mr Moon
aye Mr dolls
I think it's five to two
one so
all right we may have to go back to work
on this I know I know we have not made
some people happy and I understand that
but I really don't know where to go
right now we we own a time crunch
because we have to get our
pamphlets ready for the next year right
to go to print
so we can't keep kicking this down the
road at this point
now Mr Doss I do think it would be
um a very good decision to pull data
from our school and see how many female
students and how many male students are
sent for office referrals for dress code
violations we know what the answer is
going to be on that right I do
absolutely yeah
I've not gotten a single text or picture
from from a mail I'm gonna be honest
with you I had that experience I have
got females and I'm gonna be like Mr
Henderson I've seen some in my opinion I
thought was not that bad
but if you held them to the left of the
law you know they did not quite meet it
but they really were not inappropriate
what I would consider them so Mr golf
yes I would just like to say that I hear
what Dr Jones said and I agree that we
need to make a motion that it'd be
automatically uh Revisited a year
or would that be understood that we can
revisit however you would like to do
that can we can I ask that we do this
we'll have a work session January
February right
can we have a in the work session
that we talk about how the committee is
picked Ms Merricks how we can go about
and how maybe we could do another survey
um that would limit one time you know
apparent one time they couldn't do it
multiple times I don't know can we do
that yes they saying yeah can we just
kind of walk through how we may want
this to look before we there's no need
to go back and do the same thing we just
did you're going to get exactly right so
I think I think we need to decide
how we would like to see it done
next time is that are y'all okay with
doing that in the in the work session
just January but I think when you asked
me before to submit a dress code I did
not submit an entirely new dress code it
was written a different format
I know this this really has but I
haven't gone off the radio classroom to
see what what works and what doesn't and
what's distracting and what's that and
again I'm going to say this I've been
around long enough when we didn't have a
dress code and I know what a disaster
that was so
um I've seen both sides
thank y'all I know I know it's been a
difficult task you almost got as big a
task as Miss Betty and the calendar
committee so Mr chairman look I do
appreciate your hard work thank you I
know Mr chair yes sir before they leave
uh I would like to thank them too and
board again we can do whatever we want
to we're the board
but we don't do anything except to tell
somebody else what work to do
we sit here and talk about it they spent
about three months doing this and went
over and I said from last January into
the spring into the summer committee
looked at it sent it back to them call
them back again
just being
conscious of when we're doing this that
we're not doing anything we're just
telling them what to do so if we say
we're going to do this guarantee every
year then take about three months out of
their job every year to do this you're
just adding something to them well I
think we want to review it but we need
to give them and I'm agreeing with what
you just said we need to give them a
whole lot better Direction than we're
giving them now so they don't waste a
lot of time
and be very careful when we are going to
decide how to pick the committee
because that's one of the things we're
supposed to be getting away from is
picking is supposed to be random it's
not supposed to be male or female so
watch your words closely and what your
intent is if you want to get yourself
set up for just anybody that wants to to
sue you because they feel like they're
being discriminated against
well I think it's important that we
decide how we want to move forward and
how we can get to this because I don't I
don't think sending it back now we're
going to get any different than what
we've got I just don't see it so
we'll reconvene with this Dr Jones Put
It On All or Miss Hancock if you'll put
it on our
work session for the next one
now you don't got me lost where are we
at here
all right Middle School athletic update
thank you
yes sir Mr Dawson school board members
uh we've been looking at Middle School
sports for the past three months or so
and so this evening I could come and ask
direction from you you know we've
gathered information
um and we've sent that information to
you I would like to propose that if we
move forward that we dip our toe into
the water and look at offering
basketball for boys and
volleyball for girls if that's the
approach you'd like to take
by offering boys basketball and girls
volleyball during the first year schools
will have just one sport to focus on and
two separate Seasons they'll have
fall for volleyball and winter for
basketball
um I would ask that we would consider
hiring a part-time teacher to serve as
athletic director part-time athletic
director and that way that would
decrease the startup cost and then you
know provide us with a good idea of what
the first year would look like and if we
Middle School sports
um
you know the athletic director would be
responsible for you know scheduling
games you we could look at scheduling
only games within the county first or we
could include other schools outside of
our our County but that would be a
recommendation that I would make to you
all of it if that's what you would like
to do to move forward
um you know I think it's I've said this
before you got to crawl before you walk
before you run
um I know everybody wants to get all of
it one time but I think Dr Jones that
when you look at the cost and what we
need to do to set up the
athletic directors in the whole bit long
term to do a full-blown I don't think we
can bike that much off at one time I
think that's just too much I like your
approach to let's let's do a couple of
sports and then the next year we can see
how that goes and what we need to add
but I do think we need to look at
putting funding in the budget or how we
can fund this because it is going to
cost money right now there's nothing in
the budget for this
so I think we've we're going to have to
you know cross that bridge right away
and you know budget season's coming up
so I'm going to ask the boy you know and
and
don't I think you're on the budget
committee right
that we look at what what they tell us
we need to look at as far as putting
funding in to to do these things and you
talk about starting next next fall with
volleyball right yeah so this would be
the 23 24 school yeah if that's what you
wish for us to do anybody else
that that's what he wants to recommend
does anybody have any
I do know that the junior Piedmont
District would be very welcoming of the
War house
march to vote to accept new schools
and then I would strongly encourage you
to consider having a middle school high
school athletic director at the high
school and go ahead and let them
start figuring out how to schedule these
where you don't have a separate middle
school ad and then you could also do
away with your assistant athletic
directors if you have that full-time
position at those four schools I think
right now we pay a stipend to some of
them to be an assistant right
and I think that's something the budget
committee needs to look at this year I
think you're right Miss Merricks we're
going to have to get to a full-time A.D
the assistant principals can't do both
anymore if you if you add middle school
and you take the stipends that's that's
funding too so
you know can can we we
put that as a budget initiative
to look at that Mr Boone
so we can we're going to have to prepare
for this in steps so you know you're
going to have to put
that in place you'll have to put funding
for coaches in place and funding for
referees or whatever you have to do in
the beginning
okay
so you want a consensus on what we need
to do or do you want to vote on it well
I need some direction you know if we
move forward because we'll start I'll
tell you let's let's take a formal move
then if somebody will make a I want to
make a motion that that uh
we adopt or accept Dr Jones's proposal
that he's got outlined in this letter
and follow it uh
at this particular point until further
things develop I like this thank you Dr
Jones
I've always said from day one you and
you you just said a while ago you have
to crawl before you walk you can't do it
all at one time so this is a good step
good step and and if we can if you know
if we can speed the process up you know
if we can get the funding and speed to
process up I think we'll we'll try to do
that but we once we get people in place
and funding in place
and and the bigger hurdles are
facilities as we look at other sports
right and
okay I have a motion anybody did
somebody second I don't think I heard a
second
Motion in a second any other comments
questions I do have a question um if you
offer like your letter says volleyball
in the fall and basketball in the winter
do you not have to have something that's
opposite in the same season
like volleyball for females and
something for males and
I I think that as long as we have a
female offering and a male offering
we're fine in separate seasons in a year
in separate students I think we would
get in trouble if we offered one one two
and the other one won is probably where
we'd get in trouble and the problem
becomes is facilities
you know we're going to have if we have
two volley two basketball we're having
two teams compete for that gym we also
have JV we have varsity we have Parks
and Rec
that's part of the reason why we'll
split Seasons or have separate Seasons
so it takes
um
gem usage down if Parks and Rec knows
that we're doing this could they
possibly delay their season since they
play Within
the county so they could delay yeah we
have met with Parks and Rec and we're
talking about if this goes forward how
we can
have some flexible scheduling with them
so yeah we've started that conversation
but we just need to know that we're
moving forward and we'll further those
conversations with them
Mr Burton I think you had something yeah
clarify a couple of things one it sounds
like you you've already thought about
the logistics of it all right and number
two are we voting tonight to move
forward to this and send it to the
budget committee to see if there's
appropriate funding to do this that
correct
or are we voting gonna do it and then
hope would come from well I think we
voted on both to put it in a plan to do
it but we're going to have to put it in
the budget to have money to do it so I I
guess if we don't they come back with no
money we'll have to figure out if we're
going to I think you can do you think we
can do it uh with the two
abundant wires I think I think we asked
me about 85 000 or so so that's that's
would be the budget task and I think
that includes the part-time ad now if we
go full-time ad then you're talking
about four full-time positions
that's going to be very expensive and
that may be year after next right yeah
yeah maybe down down the road
so let me ask you a question just out of
just thinking if we have only two sports
per
schools and four schools could one
full-time ad do all four or two
full-time ads do split it you don't
think I'm talking about just for the two
sports I don't think so I don't think
that that individual would be familiar
enough with the schools to know the
facilities and the usage I mean just for
the middle school I'm not talking about
for that for the high school I said
leave the high schools alone and just
put somebody in charge of the full movie
but they would still have to schedule
around the high school sports like the
high school sports that are using the
gyms they would still have to schedule
around
those individuals just a thought
it's better you finished yep
we have a motion in a second roll call
please Mr Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald uh Mr
Henderson aye Ms Merritt aye Mr Mills
aye Mr Moon aye Mr Doss aye
school board reorganization will be do
you have a date missing you Thursday
January 5 at 5 30 p.m January 5. I need
a motion for January 5 at 5 30.
second
you made that motion did you oh I
thought he had a motion no I hadn't
heard a motion yet I thought you made it
I'm sorry I'll make the motion
second
thank you no I just made a
recommendation okay thank you I'm a
motion a second for January the 5th at 5
30. anybody have an issue with that date
okay
oh roll call please Mr Burton uh Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Miss
Merricks aye Mr Mills aye Mr Moon
your Downs all right
all right the January disciplinary
committee meeting and membership I think
Miss Hancock you have a
recommendation for that recommend
Ed January 5 at six o'clock P.M
and recommended membership will be Mr
Burton as chairman Mr Moon Mr Dallas and
Ms Merricks is awesome
I have a motion for that
so move
D any discussion
I'll call please Mr Burton uh Mr
Fitzgerald uh Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks aye Mr meals aye Mr Moon Mr
Dallas
aye and the budget committee for this
coming Ms Hancock who was that Mr Burton
is Chairman Mr Fitzgerald and Mr Moon I
have a motion
I'll make it
a second
any discussion roll call please Mr
Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr
Henderson aye Miss Mary aye Mr Mills
aye Mr Moon aye Mr Doss aye resolution
to declare all School Board property as
gun-free zones
have a motion
that motion
sucking any discussion any questions
yeah so
to clarify
all schools
are already gunned free zones right
that's correct so this is not going to
apply I mean that so that's that's
already true so this only applies to
other buildings and properties that the
School Division owns
no that's correct right that's correct
yes okay okay all right now I understand
why people want gun free zones
I think there's some good Arguments for
it
the way I see it
if somebody's going to go to the link to
shoot somebody
they're not paying attention to any rule
that restricts them from having a gun on
the property
and as much as I appreciate police
officers
the way I see it
my safety is my responsibility
so I want
the ability
to be able to defend myself and I think
other people should too
you cannot do that right now if it's a
school related function so we're not
taking anything away from that the only
thing this is changing right
would be
well it would also be when buildings
have been used by somebody other than
schools right the code talks specific to
schools so it says schools oh right at
all times and that would conclude this
building now the code says that weapons
cannot be on school grounds
school grounds Elementary High middle
right except for certain cases and
that's law enforcement if you have a
concealed carry and you're in your
vehicle you're dropping off a child you
can have a weapon on school grants as
long as you have concealed carry if or
you put it in a lock box and it's
unloaded
right
so that's for schools
it does that code is not written for
other buildings owned by the school
board but this resolution would say the
board the board has that authority to
designate them as gun-free zones as well
this building and the central office and
you mean Whitwell school any other
buildings you get to designate that way
right that's what I'm saying yes sir
so if we approve this
nobody here could have a concealed gun
in here at this moment
that's right anyway well I'm saying I
don't I don't think that's a good idea
okay well personally I do
I'm just giving you my opinion you know
if if there's no law against it what
what are you going to use to get a
person if they walked in here and go you
know you don't have any
I mean it takes some of the some of the
getting them
you know take some of that away from
them you're not going to have any teeth
to go after them if they come in here
and you they Flash the gun around they
can have it
even if they shoot if they start opening
fire
well yeah I want to be able to have a
gun I mean I got to have something
okay anybody else
I had two concerns today y'all talk
about that okay we did and he was
checking on them
he's working on
any other questions roll call please Mr
delay this one
this one on that
takes let's vote now we need to do this
now I think
the more you delay things the worst off
you in this situation
I think there's issues that's that's
Arisen from this that need address and
they are too I agree I'm I'm concerned I
I know what your concerns almost about
but I think they can be I think you'll
get satisfactory addressed to that I
hope so but I don't want to do something
that's going to harm some of our folks
well he needs to make an amendment to
the motion then if we're going to kick
this back and forth
you've got a motion you've got a second
and then he's bringing up something else
the provision allows for certain things
and I believe that we can that would
work in it right I think
I believe
and I believe if it doesn't Mr Burton we
could come back and make that allowance
but I do believe it's a pressing issue
right now for our buildings to be
gun-free zones
I will abstain okay I mean we keep
talking about going back and forth and
doing stuff I like to do stuff right the
first time so we don't have to do that
but okay
Mr Fitzgerald
aye Mr Henderson aye Ms Mary aye Mr
Mills no Mr Moon
Mr dog
thank you all right
um addition to school board regulation
JJ AF PCR student athlete sudden Cardiac
Arrest I'm going to ask that y'all
approve this on the first reading
because I believe this is bhsa all right
yes sir
um rather than to have two rings we need
to get this in place now to comply with
vhsl
so I have a motion to approve this first
read
I'll make the motion
second
any questions
roll call please Mr Burton uh Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Anderson aye Ms mayor
aye Mr Mills aye Mr Moon Mr dolls uh and
the next one we can do over over two
months and have two readings it's a
revision of school board policy form
ffpc krpc we're adding a signature that
it was actually approved to go back so
that there is a record of approvals all
that is
right now it gets approved and there's
no no single sign-off on it that it's
been approved by the board other than in
a minute so this would give an approval
spot on the form itself
I have a motion to approve the first
reading
no move no second
any other discussion
okay roll call please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms mayor
aye Mr Mills aye Mr Moon aye Mr Dawes uh
and finally we have the vsba proposed
legislative position amendments this is
the the things that Mr Fitzgerald has to
vote on
um I think Dr Jones you have an issue
with it one of them you want to talk
about and and then it's a board we'll go
ahead and vote for Mr Fitzgerald so he
can vote in our
or our division okay the last item on
that Mr Fitzgerald and I spoke about it
it deals with vhsl the participation of
of homeschool and private school
students participating in vhsl
activities in the past the board the
bsba has been against that they have
stricken that language from the proposed
to this year the legislative
items this year and and I would want I
would say as the School Division we
would surely want to support that only
public school students can and should
participate in vhsl activities
uh Mr and you're okay with that Mr
Fitzgerald yes I am and I reported to
them to pull that would because the
amendment would be block voting
so we had to get it into him by
last week I believe it was to pull it
and then be voted on individually
so after meeting with Dr Jones I did
call or text him email him and let him
know that we were opposing uh number 12.
the vsba would make it a local school
board decision
so the local board would have to decide
whether or not it would permit
homeschool and private school students
to participate okay
going to have a motion in it we'll adopt
those
from Mr you've already voted there right
well still we still need to go ahead and
do it so we can so move
second
any just any more discussion thank you
Dr Jones roll call please
uh hi
I'm entertain a motion
yeah
I didn't want to make a motion to
adjourn I want to have an update on the
vote yet I'll give it to you soon as we
adjourn oh yeah all right
I'm motioned it all right second all
right Rocco please
[Applause]
uh all right
uh
okay thank you Ms Walker if I read this
right the only thing left out is
absentee